1. Introduction
People mainly operate computers through a keyboard inter-
face. However, they often make spelling errors when using
a keyboard; e.g., hitting an adjacent key, or using phonolog-
ically similar letters. In our study, we define spelling errors
as (1) a typo from an incorrect keyboard operation, and (2)
a spelling confusion from an incorrect identification.
Baba and Suzuki (2012) introduced two types of spelling
errors: (1) spelling errors that people do not notice while
typing (hereafter called uncorrected spelling errors), and
(2) spelling errors that people correct while typing (here-
after called corrected spelling errors). The former can be a
great source of online spelling corrections, while the latter
have only been studied recently.
Detection and correction of spelling errors have been
studied over the last few decades. In particular, the
emergence of the web has created a large amount of
consumer-generated texts, which include countless num-
bers of spelling errors. To overcome the problem of noisy
texts, researchers have extracted spelling errors from web
chatter by crawling through Twitter data (Aramaki et al.,
2010) and from input logs by utilizing Amazon’s Mechan-
ical Turk (Baba and Suzuki, 2012). However, the former
study does not guarantee the correctness of the extracted
spelling errors, and the latter study includes the cost of
crowdsourcing.
On the other hand, studies using gamification have become
popular in the NLP literature (Deterding et al., 2011; Ku-
maran et al., 2014; Vannella et al., 2014; Rodrigues and
Rytting, 2012). Gamification allows us to obtain resources
without paying users by carefully designing a game suitable
for information extraction.
In particular, Rodrigues and Rytting (2012) proposed to ex-
tract English spelling errors by using a word-typing game.
This game includes the intended word and does not require
the cost of crowdsourcing. However, the writing process
of a word-typing game may differ from the usual writing
process (e.g., writing a document).
Thus, one of the purposes of this study was to show that we
can regard typing-game logs as a source of spelling errors.
We implemented a word-typing game in two different con-
figurations and compared the extracted spelling errors with
those of Baba and Suzuki (2012).
The main contributions of this paper are as follows.
 We show that corrected spelling errors extracted from
a typing game are similar to the spelling errors ex-
tracted from the usual writing process (Baba and
Suzuki, 2012).
 Because the typing game allows us to extract correct
pairs of intended word and actual input, we can ex-
tract more exact uncorrected spelling errors than what
previous works did.
